# The First International Conference in AI Music Studies (Stockholm, Sweden, November 2024)

## Prospects, Challenges and Methodologies of Studying AI Music in the Humanities

*AI music* (music generated by or with artificial intelligence technologies) 
is now part of the established music ecosystem, and is attracting significant sums of money 
from major private companies. Yet it remains by and large free of critical examination and reflection, 
perhaps with the exception of ethics (e.g., responsible use) and intellectual property (e.g., legal ownership).
This motivates several key questions for critical analysis:
1. How can the AI music ecosystem and its components be formally studied? 
2. What challenges arise in the application of established disciplines, such as musicology? 
3. What considerations must be made to make sense of the emerging AI music ecosystem?
1. What are the prospects and challenges for the new "AI Music Studies"?
2. What is needed in terms of new methodologies for this area of study?
3. Which interdisciplinary connections are required?

*The First International Conference in AI Music Studies 2024* explores the prospects, 
challenges and new methodologies required for the study of AI music within the Humanities. 
It aims to bring together into conversation scholars working in many domains,
including music computing, musicology, ethnomusicology, sound studies, science and technology studies, 
philosophy, ethics, economics, feminist and posthumanist studies. 

## Call for papers
We seek the submission of abstracts of no more than 300 words for consideration.
Authors of selected abstracts will have 30 minutes to present and discuss 
their full papers at the conference,
either online or on-site in Stockholm, Sweden.

More information: please email bobs@kth.se

## Dates
More information coming soon
- Abstract submission deadline: March 2024
- Conference dates: November 2024

## Conference fee 
TBA

## Organising Committee
- Bob L. T. Sturm (KTH, Stockholm), chair
- Elin Kanhov (KTH, Stockholm)
- André Holzapfel (KTH, Stockholm)

## Steering Committee
- Georgina Born (University College London)
- Eric Drott (University of Texas)
- Jonathan Sterne (University of McGill)
- Ollie Bown (UNSW Sydney)
- Toivo Burlin (Stockholm University)
- Oded Ben-Tal (Kingston University)
- Nick Collins (Durham University)
- Rujing Stacy Huang (The University of Hong Kong)
- Ken Déguernel (Univ. Lille, CNRS)
- Thomas Hodgson (University of California, Los Angeles)

# Funding
Financial support for *The First International Conference in AI Music Studies* comes from 
ERC-2019-COG No. 864189 MUSAiC: [Music at the Frontiers of Artificial Creativity and Criticism](https://musaiclab.wordpress.com/)
